README.md, before:

# A geoserver docker image

This Dockerfile can be used to create images for all geoserver versions since 2.5.

Based on [tomcat:9-jdk11](https://hub.docker.com/_/tomcat):

* Debian based Linux
* OpenJDK 11 (since October 2021)
* Tomcat 9
* GeoServer
  * Native Java advanced imaging (JAI) is installed
  * (but) [JAI-EXT](http://docs.geoserver.org/stable/en/user/configuration/image_processing/index.html#jai-ext) is enabled by default
  * Marlin renderer

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** Please change the default geoserver master password! The default masterpw is located in this file (within the docker container): `/opt/geoserver_data/security/masterpw/default/masterpw`

## How to build?

`docker build -t {YOUR_TAG} .`

## How to quickstart?

Build the image as described above, then:

`docker run -it -p 80:8080 {YOUR_TAG}`

or if you want to start the container daemonized:

`docker run -d -p 80:8080 {YOUR_TAG}`

Check http://localhost/geoserver to see the geoserver page and login with geoserver defaults `admin:geoserver`

## How to build a specific GeoServer version?

`docker build --build-arg GS_VERSION={YOUR_VERSION} -t {YOUR_TAG} .`

## How to build with custom geoserver data?

`docker build --build-arg GS_DATA_PATH={RELATIVE_PATH_TO_YOUR_GS_DATA} .`

**Note:** The passed path **must not** be absolute! Instead, the path should be within the build context (e.g. next to the Dockerfile) and should be passed as a relative path, e.g. `GS_DATA_PATH=./my_data/`

## Can I build a specific GS version with custom data?

Yes! Just pass the `--build-arg` param twice, e.g.

`... --build-arg GS_VERSION={VERSION} --build-arg GS_DATA_PATH={PATH} ...`

## How to build with additional libs/extensions/plugins?

Put your `*.jar` files (e.g. the WPS extension) in the `additional_libs` folder and build with one of the commands from above! (They will be copied to the GeoServer `WEB-INF/lib` folder during the build.)

**Note:** Similar to the GeoServer data path from above, you can also configure the path to the additional libraries by passing the `ADDITIONAL_LIBS_PATH` argument when building:

`--build-arg ADDITIONAL_LIBS_PATH={RELATIVE_PATH_TO_YOUR_LIBS}`

## How to add additional libs using an existing docker image?

If you want to add geoserver extensions/libs by using a mount, you can add something like

```
--mount src="/dir/with/libs/on/host",target=/opt/additional_libs,type=bind
```

to your `docker run` command.

**Note:** Do not change the target value!

## How to watch geoserver.log from host?

`docker exec -it {CONTAINER_ID} tail -f /opt/geoserver_data/logs/geoserver.log`

Commit message:

feature: Add custom fonts (e.g. for SLD styling)

README.md, after:

# A geoserver docker image

This Dockerfile can be used to create images for all geoserver versions since 2.5.

Based on [tomcat:9-jdk11](https://hub.docker.com/_/tomcat):

* Debian based Linux
* OpenJDK 11 (since October 2021)
* Tomcat 9
* GeoServer
  * Native Java advanced imaging (JAI) is installed
  * (but) [JAI-EXT](http://docs.geoserver.org/stable/en/user/configuration/image_processing/index.html#jai-ext) is enabled by default
  * Marlin renderer

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** Please change the default geoserver master password! The default masterpw is located in this file (within the docker container): `/opt/geoserver_data/security/masterpw/default/masterpw`

## How to build?

`docker build -t {YOUR_TAG} .`

## How to quickstart?

Build the image as described above, then:

`docker run -it -p 80:8080 {YOUR_TAG}`

or if you want to start the container daemonized:

`docker run -d -p 80:8080 {YOUR_TAG}`

Check http://localhost/geoserver to see the geoserver page and login with geoserver defaults `admin:geoserver`

## How to build a specific GeoServer version?

`docker build --build-arg GS_VERSION={YOUR_VERSION} -t {YOUR_TAG} .`

## How to build with custom geoserver data?

`docker build --build-arg GS_DATA_PATH={RELATIVE_PATH_TO_YOUR_GS_DATA} .`

**Note:** The passed path **must not** be absolute! Instead, the path should be within the build context (e.g. next to the Dockerfile) and should be passed as a relative path, e.g. `GS_DATA_PATH=./my_data/`

## Can I build a specific GS version with custom data?

Yes! Just pass the `--build-arg` param twice, e.g.

`... --build-arg GS_VERSION={VERSION} --build-arg GS_DATA_PATH={PATH} ...`

## How to build with additional libs/extensions/plugins?

Put your `*.jar` files (e.g. the WPS extension) in the `additional_libs` folder and build with one of the commands from above! (They will be copied to the GeoServer `WEB-INF/lib` folder during the build.)

**Note:** Similar to the GeoServer data path from above, you can also configure the path to the additional libraries by passing the `ADDITIONAL_LIBS_PATH` argument when building:

`--build-arg ADDITIONAL_LIBS_PATH={RELATIVE_PATH_TO_YOUR_LIBS}`

## How to add additional libs using an existing docker image?

If you want to add geoserver extensions/libs by using a mount, you can add something like

```
--mount src="/dir/with/libs/on/host",target=/opt/additional_libs,type=bind
```

## How to add additional fonts to the docker image (e.g. for SLD styling)?

If you want to add custom fonts (the base image only contains 26 fonts) by using a mount, you can add something like

```
--mount src="/dir/with/fonts/on/host",target=/opt/additional_fonts,type=bind
```

to your `docker run` command.

**Note:** Do not change the target value!

## How to watch geoserver.log from host?

`docker exec -it {CONTAINER_ID} tail -f /opt/geoserver_data/logs/geoserver.log`
